[Music]
hi guys welcome to another at see how
Tuesday
I'm Jacob and today we're doing
something for the gentleman we're here
in a nice old-fashioned barber shop with
an amazing barber Oskar I like to Oscar
what are we learning today from you
today we teach them how to do a straight
razor shave Batman using one of these
looks pretty sharp so there any safety
precautions we should do absolutely I
will practice lots before putting this
to your face and the way I do it is I
flayed up alone lather it up and then
just remove the latter with this very
gentle without popping without popping
are very important all right well I feel
better than I feel safe things you'll
need for a straight razor shave a
straight or cutthroat razor pre-shave
oil and shaving cream a dry towel and a
hot towel what you want the first is
have a quick inspection of the area that
you're going to be shaving you will be
looking for areas that are irritated so
just is ingrown hairs or anything that
might stumble blade right um once you've
identify those areas then just remember
to be extra careful when you start
shaving and then you can go ahead and
move on to step 2 which we wanted to now
is apply your pre-shave oils
keep in mind that you don't want to rub
the face too much because you don't want
to irritate the skin what you want to do
is just gently cover the hair follicles
once you've applied your pre-shave oil
you want to add a hat towel to the face
open up the pores and soften the skin as
a fill ticker feels amazing
you can actually warm a hot towel by
running hot water in your sink and
dipping it in the water long do you keep
it on for I want to keep it there longer
than a minute what's the next step the
next step is to apply your shaving cream
now some people use a cup and a brush to
mix their data I personally prefer
applying and lathering the skin with the
hand because then I could control my
lather and I could see exactly where I'm
applying the important thing to remember
as you apply your shaving cream or soap
is that you want to cover the shaft of
the hair completely without overdoing it
you don't want comes of shaving cream
all over your face alright Jake um we're
ready to start our first save we will
start on the right side of the face
first and I've done using downward
strokes we're going to do the left side
of the face we're going to do the
mustache and then we'll leave the chin
area for last why do you need a generic
Irina's it's the most difficult area to
shave and we could actually get most of
it as for stroking to the teeth what are
you doing with your other hand there
just you want to stretch the skin with
your tree and it's finally sure that the
skin is nice and tight to eliminate
keep in mind you want to have short
precise strokes once you get done with
that area then you can work on your neck
area from down up nice that's with the
grain again it moves differently down
exactly once we're done with the last
bit we're done with the first shape now
we're going to apply a second hot towel
as a filter go feels nice
can we just stick with this step for the
rest of the shave so Jacob we're down to
our final step we're going to use the
pre-shave oils to lather the skin again
we're not going to use any shaving cream
this time we're going to shave against
the grain for a nice smooth clean shape
you've already cut the hair so you don't
have to over lather the skin just a nice
thin coat will do this is just to help
blade glide smoothly for the skin feels
nice
difference between the first shape and
the second shape you want to get the
hairs but this short like we did in the
first day before you actually go against
me
do you use different parts of the blade
on different parts of the face
absolutely you want to take full
advantage of your whole blade here if
you need to use a corner of the blade
for certain areas then you have more in
the mustache area definitely when you're
you know stroking to the phrase you want
to use your old lady right some advice
for the viewers around though is I
definitely don't suggest talking so much
or somebody's holding a straight razor
with my sake tonight it's just kidding
alright that's the last bit I think
we're saying all right thanks Oscar
anytime wow that is awesome
Thank You Oscar all right thank you guys
for joining us for another etsy how to
stay be safe good shaving and see you
next time
[Music]
you